Hydro's Affinity Guide (29th december update)


Hey guys, i love to see the support from you about the previous guide about Device Manager tweaks, so here is a affinities guide :)
enjoy.

--- Let’s start by: What is affinity ?


What is Processor Affinity in Windows 10. Processor Affinity also called CPU pinning, allows the user to assign a process to use only a few cores. Technically you can bind and unbind a process or thread to CPU or CPUs which here can be termed as CPU cores.

--- What does affinity?

Processor affinity, or CPU pinning or cache affinity, enables the binding and unbinding of a process or a thread to a central processing unit (CPU) or a range of CPUs, so that the process or thread will execute only on the designated CPU or CPUs rather than any CPU.

--- this is an example about affinities:

  

After you seen this image, you really want to fix it.
- So here is how: 


Here is a program called “Interrupt Affinity Policy Tool”
with this program we can set affinity to every cpu in our system.
Click Here To Download

after you download the file open it with Winrar or 7Zip.


Click Next
  













Click “Agree” and Next
  

Don’t change folder and click Next
  
  

Click Close and you done :)


Now go to the installation folder and run “intPolicy_x64.exe”

if you have x32 bits then use“intPolicy_x86.exe”


















It looks like this

  




















- setting affinity:

  
  

(Updated) i recommend to test all your cores are choose what the best for you.


example:
if you set your graphics card on CPU 3, then set PCI to PCI bridges CPU 3

USB drivers:

search for your usb driver name and click on set mask

  

(Updated) set your USB to cpu that you think it’s the best for you!

  

then click ok and you done!

Please DON’T set nothing on CPU 0, if you want to know why, go to the first image in the first page.

results:

Before:
  

After:
  


I recommended to set affinity for better latency

Need help ?

DISCORD - Hydro#0007